---
layout: post
title: "Poor man's covered calls,Covered calls"
categories: misc
---

Say you have an IRA or some sort of investing account, and you own 100 shares of stock XYZ. Since you own this stock, you are probably bullish on it long term. However, as of right now,
the stock might be relatively stable. Instead of just letting it sit, you can do something called a covered call, which ***generates consistent income but limits your upside***.
If you bought XYZ at $20 and it is currently still $20, we can sell a 25C XYZ a week out, collecting a premium of maybe $.20(1%)~.


After a week, there are three possible outcomes. Either XYZ closes between 20-25, below 20, or above 25. If XYZ closes above 25$, we have our shares called away, we gain $$(25-20)*100+20=520$$
in profit. We can choose to rebuy XYZ at a higher stock price and repeat this process, or if we think XYZ is overvalued, we can repeat this with some other stock. If XYZ went all the way to $27, we end up missing out on about $$180$$ in profit if we hadn't sold a call. Note that research has shown certain stocks are better with a buy and hold strategy, such as AAPL. However, we have also been in a bull market for the past decade, and in flat or bearish markets covered calls might outperform buy and hold on these same stocks.

If XYZ closes between 20-25, we get to keep both our shares and our premium, and we can sell to open a new call position. Our new cost basis for our XYZ shares is $19.8.

Finally, if XYZ closes below 20, we again get to keep our premium, but we lose values on our shares. However, since we are bullish on XYZ long term, we can simply hold, with a new cost basis of $19.8. However, we can also choose to sell another covered call. If you do choose to sell another covered call, you should sell a strike above or equal to your cost basis, so any strike above $19.8 would work in this case. If XYZ has fallen all the way the 10$, then the premiums for selling such a call might be non-existent, in which case the best move would be to hold the stock and wait for it to recover.


 
